# Introduction
This project marks the extent of our effort to classify an image or frame of video feed to be encompassing smoke and fire. The proposed system can potentially replace the additional infrastructure required to detect and alert the inhibitants about the potential threat poised by fire and smoke germinated in the surrounding. The naive way of handling fire safety is through smoke detectors which are esentially sensors that either use photoelectronic method or ionization method to detect the presence of smoke and alert the inhibitants through buzzers. Eventhough these smoke detectors are cheap but they require maintainance on regularized manner so as to ensure that the electronic components responsible for detection are in working condition, apart from this it is quite easy to manipulate these dubious electronics as they do not have any intelligence built into it to distinguish between smoke from burning logs and smoke from fragrant sprints. This is the reason why the modern researchers have proposed usage of machine learning techniques which learns from the human anotated data and easier to tweak such that the false positives can be avaoided as far as possible. 

The solution that we are proposing involves usage of the survellince cameras which are prerequisite these days and thus does not require an additional capital to purchase smoke detectors and bare their maintanance cost i.e. one bullet to shoot two geese. The camera feed will be fed into the ML model which will classify the set/series of frames to be on fire ;-) or not. Based on the classification, frames can be termed to be safe or unsafe and if the frames turns out to be in the unsafe state then an automated warning will be flagged. In the above paragraph, We have turned pages of false positives but we need to understand that it may be incovenient at first hand but it is not as significantly dangerous as true negative. So, the agenda of the classification model is that we need to lower down the true negative rate as low as possible.  

This marks end of our brainstorming. 

# Model description

